Future correspondence through this channel.
Including but not limited to discussion, queries and reports;
sharing of data, papers, imagery and other files.
Particularly useful for cc-ing people to keep them in passive loop of information without needing active participation in certain matters.
Useful for logs, when checking/tracing back history for past information (unless you have perfect memory)
p.s. at some point this should not be needed. i dun actually email my own profs/supervisors/colleagues. we talk.
but until you are willing and able to communicate properly instead of hiding/shy and only communicate when you think you have the 'right' answer, we will have to fall back to such methods.
if you guys have nothing in mind, then im placing orders for equipment liao, which will define what is doable in the coming months, since equipment/funding takes time to come in, and generally, till you guys start giving input on ideas/interests/experience/questions/etc
these equipment are for now, slanted towards what zhengyang is doing, so
-we going to make two worktables, going to buy the wood and aluminum profiles for the main structure soon
-i sent quotations for 2~3 silicon photo diodes
-1~2 quanmax computers
-many arduinos and raspberry pi
-assorted electronics such as motorised rotational stages and linear translation stages
-still thinking over optical equipment, maybe some 30mm cages and polarising beam splitters from thorlabs, and perhaps more optical fibres
thats to clear this year's budget within two weeks time from now
if you guys have anything in mind or issues/interests/doubt/anything, please sound out, else i cannot plan for things to happen smoothly..
thanks
be more specific
what exactly IS the idea?
i mean, i sent u guys that link, i know what it is
but i do not know what you think
what type of signal generators (like what specifications would be useful/likely start?)
what kind of motors? like if you just google/wiki/ebay/amazon/etc, so many options
if you try the physics/math, what scale/numbers/specifications/types of motors
until you can begin to discuss what signal generators or motors (and for that matter, how to connect them, power them, measure and control them, etc), its difficult to answer what src has, and what to get
the thinking process matters alot, think and plan more objectively, logically and in depth
also think of accessories;
for example, zhengyang has already assembled a set of tools (various rulers with stands, multimeter, power meter, testpens, variable power supplies, extension cords)
likewise why we are building a worktable now, to create an area to work on for long term
so for you: basic things which might have skipped your mind
things like
-where are you going to place your setup? (remember this is long term stuff, so unlike games like sypt, this thing is not going to setup within a day, or tear down after 3 hours. its going to be there for months and years, evolving and getting better over time)
-what tools do you need? computers? internet access? any software? etc
let things take a more serious, long term tone, albeit flexible
but not casual anyhow do once and thats it kinda thing ba
i think at some point ( i forget, was it yday?)
that you say you would go read up on oscilloscopes or something
but never got back to discuss/reflect/ask anything about that since
oscilloscopes and the signal/function generators are very tied in
understanding one would understand the other better
and understanding/knowing what they even are, then have an idea what to get and how to use etc
but not sure if you guys want to google about it though
shall wait for your updates
ive received some quotations from oscilloscope companies for various price and technical specs, but placed on hold
unless anything unemotional (i.e. numbers, not words) is discussed, i not going to approve the purchase (becos honestly, i think spending $10,000 to buy an oscilloscope without knowing what you guys/want need, is a bad way to spend money yea?)
designing the worktable nows;
probably getting 126cmx60cm birch wood from ikea, maybe tml
and 1" aluminum profiles from either kelantan lane or clementi
deciding the number of profiles, L brackets and screws i need though
i assume you guys dun have smartphones.....):
hmm.
you guys still refusing to discuss or have the basic courtesy to acknowledge via digital text;
nor the initiative to ask me anything or tell me anything.
so let's do this the traditional way. ba., via instructions and face to face.
arrange a time tomorrow (4th Dec 2013), you come to my office in nus and we discuss when and what to do.
then another day in the future, then actually start to do
and 12 hours i think is ample time to reply, considering my mentors when i was in hwachong, easily expect such a response time, in an age without handphones, google, wikipedia.
(or less. i recall emails in the morning telling me to meet at noon)
so lets see how ba~
to keep u in the loop/idea of whats happening with the admin,
have to clear the budget within two weeks, both in terms of quotations from the companies and approval with various hci senior staff etc
feel free to suggest anything you think might be interesting/fun/useful/curious
tentatively
tomorrow ~ 9:30am @ SRC
for workstation (probably need wood, acrylic to screw onto wood, markers to write on the table/acrylic, screws, drill, aluminum profiles, L-brackets, end caps, LCD screens, holder for LCD screens, something to hold cables together, cable tie plus whatever we can find maybe, wireless keyboard and mouse)
1) measure dimensions of src photonics lab
2) check for existing materials
3) calculate what to get
4) cab to IKEA Alexandra
5) drop materials in HCI
6) cab to wherever hwachong supplier is for the rest
7) assemble (start) on friday afternoon
Motivation to have a proper workstation
1) someplace mechanically stable and heavy, so we can place sensitive expensive equipment with less worry about damaging it by accident
2) by building it, we can choose to customise it; plus the psychology of it means it belong to you, have a very strong stand in preventing anyone else to use/kop stuff from it
3) yudong suggested having the surface to be writable, i.e. we can doodle ideas, schematics, anything on it during design, brainstorming, etc which i think is a great idea, very useful for creativity environment/culture, and practical
-so for that i think we get a wooden top (non conductive against electric shocks, safe; less thermal mass so introduce less temperature fluctuations; less acoustic resonance so should dissipate mechanical vibrations better than metal or ceramics i feel
-get piece of acrylic on top to act as the writing surface, also works better against scratchs i think, rather than sratch and dirty the wood directly, this should make things more durable, and waterproof somemore
-get markers/duster or something = think of some clever way to fix it to the table = i thinking of velcro tape
-the table i think should be h shape
-the flat middle height portion is the working area
-the vertical part, we can mount multiple LCD screens and small computers to work with, this should free up working space away from shelves and whatnot, and make things less messy; things will get more complicated over time, so it pays to plan for room early on, and room that is adaptable to whatever needs arise in the future
would you be willing and able to put in more time next week?
because theeres a problem
essentially, its of some importance that a certain setup be up and running within this holiday, as a answer to the sch admin to justify the spending and liberty given to the students
specifically the setup i have in mind centres around a michelson interferometer that cna(might) detect the moon and its position via its gravitational pull
this was started by zhengyang, but for one reason or another, he is unable to put time into it (so far about 12 hours in total over the past one month)
needless to say, this means very little has happened
since ethan is going oversseas, zhengyang is busy;
i was wondering if you are interested/able , perhaps with lor, to concentrate on this mid scale project next week+
will explain tml briefly
also, think about how to make the table more useful
maybe a table lamp with hood
holders with swivel for LCD screens
magnetic strips to hold tools
or metal box with strong magnet inside to keep screws
velcro to keep cables/wires tidy
some kinda holders for crocodile clips,
maybe hooks for multimeters etc
LED strips to use as lighting
as more people and more projects start happening at the same time
its the lab lights will be off to reduce cross contamination
so everyone/table should have one light/torch to operate in the dark
LED better than normal table lamps cos less heat, less power consumption, last longer
and LED strips is easier to handle into any shape/posture needed
qubit. and no. at least not yet.
the level of mental discipline and maturity and efficiency is still quite some room to grow before have chance of successfully making any research in quantum computing, otherwise its just burning money and time... D:
but we have time. kinda.
depends on u~
tml. 3pm @ src
so hope you do believe how fast you move,  how much you do,  gets you how far n new de rewards n experiences n vice versa
reminder to please try to push yourself to have some initiative n common sense. a bit duh that u rather travel to hci, wait one hour do nothing,  n have me push u to get a paper n pen n start drawing,  or google for what profiles exists.  ie things you can do at home.
so do believe that as long as you need me to stand in front of you,  to make you do such things,  which should take minutes on your own time., you n I know the really fun stuff like making graphene, superconductors,  quantum computers,  qubits, teleportation,  fission reactor, etc... are not going to happen.  money is hardly the issue. Your initiative,  independence, discipline is the problem yea.  Work on it.
In the ideal world,  when I ask you to come up with  workstation, you should at least start to google n think n draw.  Have some rough sketches,  dimensions,  quantity n type of materials needed n from where,  source for them.  That should take an hour if you sit down n focus.  The next hour,  send out quotations to get the costs. wait overnight.  Next day go get the materials in the morning (split up,  everyone go get different stuff fast. no need four people to carry one thing). afternoon build n assemble.
done. then next thing. n next thing. n next.
so shall see how much u understand n accept this reasoning n what action you choose to take ba.
meanwhile I have budgetted n sourced about fifty odd stuff for this month budget, n dozens of projects to do in the coming weeks.
hope you four guys can source n design one table workstation faster n better yea.
Oh n the thing is you guys do have very nice ideas on how to do it.
The single biggesy problem is you procrastinate.  You only move when I stand in front n insist u pick up pencil n drae. take the tape n measure.  talk n discuss.
Your ability is not in doubt.
Your psyche of waiting stoning nuaing is.
meows (:
I shall go source for the linux pc now.  issues with finance department,  it department
oh ya a reason why im annoyed is I didnt go home last night nor sleep because I was in office whole night n morning to source design think for the fifty plus items etc for various projects you guys can do
upset because I have to one person nor sleep to google for stuff I asked four of you to do for a long time but just refuse to try/bother/reply
hence my  disappointment when that effort is met with you guys playing in the lab for an hour n I have to physically cab down to hci from my work to do things like measure width of table etc....
bad enough that you let your junior do the dirty work of designing and crunching up the numbers for the materials needed.
worse that you are not commenting on his work and helping it to improve.
two days have passed since friday when you promised to send in the design last night, and you broke your word.
you had two days to fulfil your promise and your own sense of friendship and initiative. you didnt.
you have one hour to start comment/help his work.
stop being selfish.
thanks.
sighs.. so formal and rigid... mehs ):
hope one day you will realise that this was never, ever,  an issue of commitment, but efficiency and maturity...
none of you have close to my or my supervisors' level of burden nor commitment issues..
have fun~
if anyone else wish to fall out, sound out now, preferably before the school invests 5digits sums of money and more in white elephants (which happens all the time over the years);
fyi your names and progress have always been reported/updated to:
Mrs Tan Ai Chin, Dean of Research
Dr Erkan Polatdemir, PhD in Quantum Tunneling
Mrs Ng Siew Hoon, formerly HOD Science
and some Dr Tan who i think took over as the hod
so i will now think of how to report and apologise to them.... for misusing their resources and approvals...
at the very least, do not be too surprised if next month i tell you that all these have to come under projects day or centad or some formal systematic reportable kinda structure blahs blahs by order of 'above' to enforce a sense of duty and commitment, just like every other kid on the block yea...
update on the current state of affairs for the items i getting to last for the coming 3~6 months i estimate
generally larger core items, peripherals/accessories should still be obtainable
larger/expensive dedicated items need more time/plan/justification...
open the file. and read briefly through at least ba
ok. thanks.
feel free to ask/comments about anything, but preferably not stuff that can be googled right away
of more useful import is,
if you have any fun/interesting toys/equipment to add to the list
dun have to be too sure of what uses, or even how to use, a rough idea = that can come laters
what we have to be sure, is where/how to get and how much money, and get it
for your info, to begin having an idea as to what options really exists at what price
zhengyang: you mentioned some other option just now, sounded good alternative;
please update details here cos i dun remember specifics and thus difficult to compare practically
p.s. im thinking of using this particular 30mm profile because of
1) cost considerations and
2) thinking of getting such boxes to hold/contain things, modular easy to use, general
thus by looking at the cad images of the different types of profiles, this 30mm option in particular has the thinnest inner edge, with which to hook this type of container with
i.e. we can have multiple horizontal bars running across above the table (the side where we elevate and want to hang the LCD screens
or even the horizontal that runs right under and along the wooden top, can be used to hang these containers to put stuff, i think can be quite useful
noted with thanks
note for design:
consider using thinner profiles (say 30mm or 40mm) but more truss/scaffolding
rather than the 60mm option (because im worried the $$$ might balloon out of control unneccesarily...)
and i think zhengyang mention just now (maybe heard wrongly)
that tested with the acrylic in the src lab on the woodtop, and it was heavy enough + enough friction/traction to stay relatively in place?
if so, i would feel that thoughts of securing it with extra means is, secondary
i.e. if one day it proves that just placing the acrylic and wood in place by gravity is not enough , then add stuff (maybe 4 holes + nut and bolt or drill screw or something)
keeping in mind some basic concerns like
-drilling holes in stuff might crack them (glass, acrylic, even the laminated top of the wood)
-screw/bolts stuff through them means will have protrusion, this will haunt us later, we will want a smooth surface and not have stuff jutting out
=one solution for this that we normally do is drill the hole in steps, specifically T-shape, i.e. bore the main hole, then change drillbit and slightly drill away a wider top for the cap of the screw/nail to rest into and become flush with the rest of the surface
will add/edit over the weekend, but heres the current draft anyways
understood. (n generally i reply to all or at least cc everyone to keep information/comms flowing)
i think the end caps are only used for places like the corners (say, the four points of contacts with the ground, or if any points exposed and might scratch people; i.e. ignore the profile ends that meet other profiles)
the purpose of the end cap is just a piece of rubber; aluminum is sharp, dun want to scratch the floor or people..
from the sketches but not your text, i assume you are using 30mm profile (but cannot tell which kind of 30mm profile u have in mind)
headache till need tiger balm ah? D:
also, from your component parts, was not immediately obvious which ones are the diagonal pieces
with the assumption (unchecked) that the supplier is willing and able to cut off the ends diagonally in the first place...
hmm
so u agree with the choice of profile, any reason for or against? rather than mental convenience i hope
but we dont have the baskets, so its a risk thinking that it fits
ohm didnt remember who is heavier, perhaps write down the numbers when you say statements like that
against, i dun memorise the mass inertias, would be simpler for you to just write down the numbers rather than say 'slightly higher'
or for us to either ignore the statement or spend time to hunt down the numbers
my concern isnt just the depth of the cavity
but the entry width into the cavity
and the thickness and slant/gradient of the inner edges of the profiles, with which to hang/hook any container/object
in choosing the type of profile to fit this particular purpose
just realised; all your lengths are <1m
means this is to form a cube?
if you recall, i said something about having a backstand to mount the computers/screens/tools....?
u know, like a h shape
Do the rest have you have no opinions nor time n effort to google... ):
received.  will read later.  At friend's wedding now
I suggest source for the wood first  n samples of acrylic to practise the drilling
n wheres the draft design,  we need to buy the profiles n materials quite soon...
n choose the drillbit size to use to match with the screws you want to use.  probably flat top so can flush with the surface by drilling an extra wider topRough is ok.  First draft of course what.  no one gets result in first attempt in life.  only in exam hall can mug answer sheet.
my bad. still st wedding.  didn't see your sketch.  analyze later
Can u get the drama Centre open.  n are the wood of the type n size you want
read thru all n analysed.  but shall refrain from sharing the thoughts if you guys do not wish to discuss. till then.
What is a useful discussion means,  to drill a hole in acrylic,  what is needed: a drill of enough torque,  the drill bit of the size to match the cap screw you want,  n evidence that when you drill something smooth you won't slip the drillbit  off from the vertical n break it sendinf it flying
of cos other people have done it.  Other people also can go to moon or build nuclear fusion reactors.  That is not useful.
useful is how do you plan to do it,  and with what.
As to why not using white board,  what do you think?
instead of asking questions n leaving it there,  offer your own solutions,  refrain from assuming other people to think and some for you.  You ask the questions you want,  and answer them.  Don't be spoonfed. discuss with people.
not just asking vague questions ba.  You can do better than this.  I don't believe it takes thirty hours to google a few YouTube videos or think of using white board (like,  where to buy such size? )
just need to get dram centre opened =
i'm not entirely sure why what is so obvious that you used 'just'
it implies you know of a surefire way to get it opened and get the wood
please share that information here, its not obvious to me sorry
for example, i want to retrieve wood of similar density and thickness by say, 10am monday
how to go about, like who to contact, what reason to give, the contact details, thanks
to be fair, your questions and ideas of drilling acrylic or using whiteboard are entire good and valid points
but
its half baked
as the saying goes, the devil is in the details; so far every single one of you have good ideas *when* pushed desperately
and when you have the good ideas or good questions, you stop there
your attention span lasts a few minutes at most
for example
1) good that you found that drilling acrylic is doable (this requires the skill to youtube)
bad that you didnt find out or say where is this acrylic you want to try on (and how if it fails, or whose permisson to get to use the acrylic), what drill to use, how to clamp the acrylic down, which cap screws to use, etc; focus your attention a bit me on the actual physical real things to do, one step more than the abstract idea, and you are good to go already (this requires the skill to convert ideas to reality)
2) good that you ask why not use whiteboard (this takes a few seconds to ask)
bad that you stop there. go ahead and say the pros and cons of whiteboard vs acrylic, do the analysis, comment and criticise; source for the whiteboard, how much it costs etc (this is where the effort and skill comes in)
3) good that you thought of using truss/scafolding/cross beams,
bad that you stopped it once you left src
good that you went to hardware stores physically to see what exists
good that you sketched out a rough draft and quantity/type of profiles and accessories needed. sad that you are the only one who bothered, despite being the youngest.
to share something
i said this yesterday, i say this reality again
why do you believe any adult in hwachong will feel comfortable or trust you with a saw?
when adeline dont even trust you to enter the photonics lab without my presence
think, seriously guys
if you are an adult in hwachong, be you teacher or technician or whatever or your parent
and a bunch of teenage boys come to the lab to do work, and choose to chat/play for an hour, instead of starting to reply their mentors emails
or read the freaking excel datasheet he spent nights editting
or open the url for the profiles company and spend a precious one minute to read instead of one hour playing
what the.
wow.
this is the attitude to convince people that you are so keen to learn and serious
and willing and able to build qubits, supercomputers, things that your peers are ignorant of and probably no other teen in asean has access to
yesterday in src i stated like so explicitly, draw the design/sketches and send me by today
i said i expected by friday (yesterday), but i close one eye and give leeway and give you till today (thirty whole hours)
to take a piece of pencil and paper and draw some lines and squares and numbers/lengths
already you cannot do that
instead you thought of a question, youtubed some videos, thought of where wood can be found
things that takes me maybe 5 minutes. and i know it takes you pretty much that amount of time as well.
you honestly, without a second thought
believe people will trust you to handle a hand drill and not injure yourself or each other
or damage anything
spare a minute and
将心比心
i know you are young
but i also have to ask you to grow up abit sooner than you like
which means taking responsibility for your own life, through your actions and inactions
so yeps
this email is timed at midnight, cos i harbour the hope that anyone of you can be bothered to start helping out in the design proper, or comment on zhengyang's effort instead of keeping quiet
agreed with the practice:
the things about drilling this i feel are
1) the duration cannot be long, else might melt
2) cannot be too fast, else might melt again
3) hole size should be smaller than the screw, else no threads can be formed with the screw
4) top of the hole has to be widened to allow the cap of the screw to sink in and flush with the surface
5) the gradient of the drill has to be vertical and not move, else at speed will risk breaking/snapping the drillbit and send it flying/hitting things and people
6) the acrylic to be clamped down, else it might spin out of control and cut people
agreed with the method
further, its common practice to use a nail or sharp object and hammer, to knock a small guiding 'hole' or depression, to guide the drillbit awy from slipping
ah and yes, using the ply wood to sandwich the target material is another common good method to add structural support
good find on your own (:
good. i agree that is a good choice, safer than a hand drill for beginners
only issue to use that is to spend some time and effort to clamp the acrylic or wood or whatever onto the anvil like stage
but once done, its very safe and stable, and with the screws, consistent controlled movements or the directions and depth of the drilbit can be done
caution for that is the torque for that machine is seriouly high, so common sense things are
dun wear long sleeve
accidents have happened in various workshops that the sleeve gets caught by the drill, and the hand is drawn in and meshed almost instantly, there is no way to stop that once its happen, human reaction time is not enough to stop the drill in time
one of the items im arranging in the budget is
two  x {raspberry pi, casing, wifi, 64gb sd card} for~ $250 or so
motivation is this
to create a 128gb ram 'supercomputer' test
if and can connect these two, then we can get more, say $1000 for 8 x 64 = half a terabyte of ram supercomputer farm
or for $2000, say the price for a macbook, we can get a one !@%#^ terabyte of ram! sure hit news/papers as a local wonder...
it seems they manage to swap memory in the sd card to act as pseuodo ram
not sure how it works, can think about it further
but the fact is that its done before, so no doubt about whether it will work, just a matter of how
will also set aside some budget for this
to house what will become the most powerful computer outside of mindef/nus/ntu/astar/dsta...

im also considering whether to use
a) ethernet cable
b) wifi
or
c) radio
to connect the computer, arduino raspberry pi...
-ethernet i think is reliable but messy (imagine 20 cables running together)
-wifi is neat but might not be too reliable in the photonics lab location
-radio is old fashion but more 'brute' force and less likely to fail and yet neater than cables, less neat as wifi de compromise...
the prof who invented this method is generous enough (common for academics but not companies) to share and teach how to do what he did with very explicit steps
just literally read and follow the pdf file
hmm
just trying to make sure we have all the parts needed to make this happen, so you can start/do this if it interests u...
but then it seems wifi/radio might not work, the prevailing method seems to be connnecting via ethernet cable to a network hub, with each pi serving as a node
radio seems to have a grey area problem of not being unique frequency/ID for each device
wifi... im not sure
thinking
Thanks zy n yd. agree that ethernet would probably be the better bet.
but exploring possibilities to make future expansion of setup smoother also.
my labs prefer using bnc n nim cables for data transfer between machines
as to the arduinos:
not really, we can use them to build weather stations and mount them outside.
or mount on the ar drones and fly them around as aerial monitors
or hook up the arduino makey makey to the floor to convert the floor or stairs into a piano etc
one of the motivation for getting the makersbeam is to also see whether theres a neater way to mount circuits/arduinos/pi on the optics bench
perhaps say, 30cm above the the optics, with the cables running down and taped along the mount or something
at the very least yea, loose cables/wires/fibres should be held together with cable ties, and taped onto the surface or something to stop them from getting entangled or damaged
which reminds me, we need to get paper tape. lots of.
my bad, i mean medical tape
so we can tape down fibres, wires, cables, equipment, papers, etc without leaving behind sticky residue
excellent!
i love the idea of drawing on graph paper, makes scaling for reference so much easier and consistent
(i.e. when taking photos of object, also a great idea to put a ruler beside, in the photo, much easier for reference and calculations)
yudong: elaborate abit for the reasoning of your modifications, dun leave it to assumptions and guesswork for readers. thanks!
1) what will u use to join the diagonal profiles?

2) no one ever said the screens must be mounted at the top of the back? i.e. whatever the height of the back, the screens, and anything else, can be mounted at any height < the height of the back

3) the 900mm if shortened by 30mm, will the profile structure be shorter than the width of the wood? is that ok with u?

Lor: are you busy too?
to be fair, ethan is right in his own way
i.e. if you find replying emails with a two-day-lag is already a strain on your schedule/life, then ethan made the right choice to drop out;

i love to play and nua. but i do so by working really fast, so i have lots of time to play.

therefore i do not want to burn alot of time on this kinda research, but the requirement is that you respond/work fast

for example, say building the raspberry pi supercomputer
i expect the moment the raspberry pi physically reach you guys, considering the whole pdf is already listed with explicit steps on the internet and i even stated the url in the emails
i would expect it to be doable within 2 mornings or 2 afternoons. (its like, you know, just read the pdf and type, shouldnt take 2 months to type 4 pages i think)
and if work slowly, like facebook/youtube/chat/lim kopi while working kinda slack manner, then a week
that i think is the realistic expectation i have. if you guys can do that, then we can talk about real research and the really fun stuff rather than such menial tasks
(fun stuff like superconducting magnets, that are cooled down by liquid nitrogen, and we can suspend blocks of metal in midair)
to be fair, ethan also failed my test (sorry, but life is a test. not the exam hall, those no one really cares.)
the test was this, i asked u guys to take a pen and paper and start drawing. i said google and see what profiles exist.
some of you guys did. one of u didnt.
for whatever reason, ethan cannot/willnot take paper/pen and start working, just watch; likewise he stared at the laptop in front of him in the src, and just refuse to google, i have to grab the computer and type.
oh yes
this is intentionally meant to be psychologically stressing to you guys (by me)
this is part of the test/training
because if you find talking to me scary, replying to a digital text within a day a burden on your timetable, googling one url to be stressful
then...
then you will definitely underestimate the dangers of playing with liquid nitrogen (spilling it on yourself for example, will kill/destroy the part of the body that comes into contact)
(for example, i notice some of u playing with lasers before by anyhow waving. if jokers do that in my lab, we will make sure hes debarred from his phd program and kicked out of nus for being a destructive idiot)
i know some if not all of you will not like this
but you know, not most teenagers will have access to the kind of toys and experiences you guys would/should/ soon have
so i need to have you guys pass this psychological/maturity test, to prove to me and your teachers/parents, that you can do it
and i dun expect you to suddenly grow up overnight, hence the tests/trials/training come in stages, i.e. table is the simplest safest fastest thing i can think of already.... and already 1/4 find it too tough
next up will be the raspberry pi supercomputer, the sono sound reducer, the moon detector... these 3 i know zhengyang and yudong has some ideas/work done on it already
Lor: i duno what your interests are yet so i cannot comment/help in any useful way....
its not meant to bully u for the sake of bullying u orite...
meows,
not sure why I have had to stand in front of the src door to know you guys are not there.
I assume it takes too much stress n effort to say so or acknowledge my whatsapps since 11:52am.
much easier to just ignore n let me cab down from work to realize you guys not there I suppose
(do not need to rush to reply this; think you guys deserve a rest/break.
that being said, im not banning u from replying neither :o )
think you all did well today; left to your own devices, you guys actually can make things happen reasonably well in a fair time frame
so now just pending quotations, approve it, the parts arrive, assemble
i do not foresee any huge hiccups... just small improvements over time as well figure out which lcd screen to get, or velcro, magnets, etc to add on
what computers to get is an annoying thing, largely because its something that only your school IT department is allowed to buy, and they dun dare to buy anything without warranty
i.e. they would rather burn a thousand dollars for a laptop or thousands for a mac, then $120 for a quanmax or $175 for a usb linux
i find it stupid, so am fighting against the admin
for your part, chill, go dota or watch star trek or hobbit or something
but do start thinking, reading up on a project that you would like to do
primary:
i would suggest continue the optics part: michelson interferometry to detect moon
if you wish, all three of you might like to work together for now, to build up experience and confidence
these things will now start getting difficult and require more than googling i fear, and need physics/math/computing
for example
-laser (we should figure out how good and stable this laser is, in terms of its intensity, and temporal coherence)
= intensity: photodiodes, to measure and monitor the intensity over time
= camera: to measure the shape of the beam, it should be gaussian, otherwise need to warp it with prisms or toroidal mirrors
= spectrum: via grating to resolve its spectral/frequency to ~0.2nanometres precision
michelson interferometer
= build one, see the fringes, then we elaborate
-motors/piezos
=to attach this to the mirrors and stages, because for real experiments, we do not want to crudely use hand manually move things during measurements, we use machines to move it in small consistent steps
-springs / hooke's law
to construct a way to have a mirror that hangs on a spring or equivalent, such that it moves at least half a micron a day due to the moon being directly above or below
and im not sure how hard this step is to u;
to present this visually, perhaps via gnuplot
i.e. so we can see visually that data in realtime
i.e. monitor fringe movement, laser intensity fluctuations, temperature change, mirror movement etc in plots/numbers on the computer screen, rather than by.... feeling and guesswork
chill,
might be interesting to do this?
i think quite straightforward with instructions and such
would make for a fairly nice looking clock, can mount in photonics lab, to make it your lab :D
really
make the place more special, unique, specially yours, and not a generic ding dong yea? ^^
actually not unique enough since people have done it
it hits me that if combined with this
maybe we can make a *mandarin/chinese* version
that will really make it more unique/special
and perhaps more meaningful for a school like ours
might not be a bad idea to get the cheapest model
to tear/strip apart to see whats inside...
then reproduce/improve/play with it
i will be leaving for taipei/seoul tml,
and i think you guys, at least for now, stil operate more efficiently with direct instructions than a liberal space to explore
so i am giving you instructions now
1) all 3 of you, u know what you designed for the workstation table, and the materials are in src.
assemble them and make the worktable happen this week.
2) zhengyang: read up on
-michelson interferometry (fringes, interference, lasers...etc)
-hooke's law = F=-kx
-simple classical newtonian gravity: F=GMm/r^2
-browse through the thorlabs catalog to have a feeling what are the equipment we have
i doubt the technicians will allow you to use/play with the stuff on your own at the moment
specifically, your lack of confidence to do so on your own, is precisely the proof and reason why you will not be allowed yea
-given the fact that none of you are interested in the photon detectors, i have cancelled the budget allotted to it, and the resources in nus will forget about the request
therefore a problem arise, i do not know how to make the moon detector thingie anymore (like seriously. what/how are we going to measure the interference fringes with? by eye?)
this will present difficulty, as it will require actually real research to adapt and create new things that doesnt previously exist, in order to work, with no certainty of success whatsoever
which extended, when spending a day in nus to build a detector is too much stress/effort to even start talking about, we know researching to invent new ways of detector techniques, is not going to happen
so yea.
im. not entirely sure what to do next (:
likewise, all the quantum optics, photonics, optics, computing etc experiments previously i might have talked about
cant be done i think
since all we have are the mirrors/lenses/lasers, but nothing to measure them with, so no way to align or use or experiment with
bahs
the lab has soomeee kinds of detectors (photomultiplier tubes, light gates, ccd cameras etc.... we can try to salvage/modify those to boost its precision n accuracy.....)
-i think we have talked about about the sound cancelling thingie,
if you want, you can actually just start on your own
oscilloscopes, signal generators, speakers, pieces of acrylic.... are all in src. just take them out from the cupboard or what, and press buttons and see what happens
-raspberry pi will arrive soon, and pdf instructions link have been given to u, if and when they arrive, consider just linking up two and see if you can do it
if you can / willing / able, then we can if you like, proceed to order say, 10, 20 pi and make a 1TB ram supercomputer or something
wireless charging: the instructions have also been shared somewhere (Whatsapp?)
but this involves electricity and relatively higher voltages
but try to read up a bit more, and discuss what equipment you might need/want to start with, and it can be started already
is this ok/doable
or too much already
p.s. the text i write here is shorter for yudong and lor becos the tasks are things that have instructions from the internet and known to work by many people around the world
the moon detector by zhengyang, is something that doesnt exist, hence warrants more problems and original thinking to foresee and resolve them
thanks for the prompt response
but do try to read and consider/reply the actual email as well yea...
thanks for response
although as and when you read/think, please feel free to update/ask/etc
cos i realise your response is super... generic
it applies to anything (relationships, homework, exams, dota, etc.....)
yeps. Just read abit,  share any findings or queries or discussion.  Don't aim to 'know' the 'solution', just a way to start,  what you need to start with n lets gooo
when have things n equipment in your hands,  easier to feel fun n understand,  rather than reading which will either feel stressed or dull nia
I agree many silly mistakes n misunderstandings can be avoided fairly easily.  might feel hard.  But if you really think about it,  it's not.
Enjoy your hols. am in seoul.  talk more when I return xmas eve.
and happy birthday; so smmaaalll~~~; ah gu gu :D
all updates, discussions, questions, interesting urls or patents, equations, *anything*
just spam/add here, at this point satying/texting anything is better than nothing, and rather than my scary expectation of too much too fast
please do at least start a bit (per day? per two days? per week? per anything really... just... start... then we work on having efficiency in the future yea)
so two tasks which i think is well within your abilities if you just focus, like say google for an hour, read the instructions pdf for an hour, tinkle with equipment for 4 hours. repeat for a second day
i believe you can complete the instructions within one weekend, no creativity or novelty, science, intuition involved yet at this point... so yea... please dun carry any psychological fear/burden as if its something difficult
if u youtube/google, im sure u would figure out that many of these tasks are primary sch kids with toys, youtubing themselves online yea
1) network two raspberry pi, if successful, then perhaps 10 to 20 pi to create a one terrabyte ram computer or something, so we can start processing some real scientific data or solve some realistic equations
2) investigate sound/noise cancellation or selection (oscilloscopes, signal generators, motor, wires, piezos.... all are gathering dust in src lab, just need you to walk to the lab and take them from the cabinet and connect them... dun really need a few months of worry)
if you do have concerns or what, please, just say
dun keep quiet and pretend and hope things will go away or solve themselves
this is life and reality
face it, and you will do fine
i really really hope things will not come to the point whereby i have to go down to the src say this friday afternoon, find all the equipment, plan, design, solve the equations, align, make the whole sound cancelling thingie start working somewhat, and i report to you my findings, and you just say interesting...
make no mistake, knowledge has no value in our world, not the ability to compute fast, though exams rewarding you for memory and computation might have trained you to believe otherwise
the world cares if you can create new knowledge, new value, network people, impress people, make things happen
spending money is.... the solution of children
anyways, do spend some time to discuss
like i know you said u read thru the patents or various websites...
but you stop there
why?
why not spend an addition 3 to 5min and just *say* what you think or feel or understand or not understand or wonder from the readings?
is 5min of thought that precious to take away from your daily life? (note that i dun even expect you to reply within minutes or hours, now its already stretched to days and weeks and you still find it too 'fast') and 2,3 sentences elaborating what you think about sono or raspberry pi.... is not too much effort/stress right? im not asking for 'the correct answer', im asking you to chat and discuss
are you really that busy?
if not, learn to focus, and not burn so much time doing so little, feeling so stressed while accomplishing very little
yeps
sorry for pushing but yea
you guys have the intelligence and curiosity
but lack the confidence and clarity to use them happily and efficiently, so far it seems you spend more of your attention on why things wont work or why things are not worth doing, instead of just. doing. so.
like you would rather spend the time to argue against not replying emails, than just. replying. the original. question. and start discussing.
ive lost track how many times im trying to beg you to start discussing/talking... please dont imagine it to be a sudden one hour email/discussion followed by two weeks silence
please please please let it be slow and steady, a few minutes a day, then you will grow and be better
fatal mistake to do/think nothing..... last minute panic and rush and feel stress and churn out nothing but empty gestures to show teachers blah blah yea
ok. thanks! dun worry about today ba, xmas, go enjoy yourself;
just a reminder for the general attitude
as long you start and maintain a certain level of communication can le, im not unreasonable person yea, i also playing/nuaing today
in case you case wonder/emos why the discussion/things i ask/share/do so far might seem too mundane and not 'real' science or 'real' physics
one reason is maths
your skills in both maths and experiments need to brush up before anything 'real' can be perceived or understood or appreciated or created by you
right now, its easier to brush up your experimental skills because we are cheating by money
i.e. using school money to buy equipment, rather than you to develop your own equipment, so we are getting a headstart
im doing the physics/math behind the scenes, to research the theory and experiment in order to know what to buy
therefore to you, it seems as if nothing is happening. because much is happening behind the scenes by me and colleagues
been trying to engage you in the behind the scenes, but you are content not to, so... yea
some of you seem awed/impressed by seniors/strangers/others doing lagrangian mechanics or something
not sure if u realise that what they are doing often have errors and will not pass in scientific community
suspect you are impressed simply by the jargon and terms they say, and by the symbols/algebra they write on the whiteboard
to give you a hint of an idea what maths is needed to do the physics experiments im asking you to start discussing, things like quantum computing, teleportation, entanglement, photon detection,
i have attached one textbook pdf for u
keep in mind that
i on average take 5 modules per semester. with each semester lasting 13 weeks from the first intro lecture to the finals exams
this pdf attached, is just a textbook for a module (modules tend to have multiple books by the way)
also keeping in mind that textbooks are easier than research papers, because they are old and established maths, whereas research papers are cutting edge knowledge still
presently, i think the least time and effort can be used if
i do the physics/maths, by discussing with you verbally, so i can translate your thoughts and opinions into maths
you do the experiments, and i do the data analysis
school spend the money
then things might still happen within 2~3 years
otherwise if presently u do not start discussing even your opinions, me not being psychic, cannot do the physics/math (unless you want me to teach you which i doubt; becos if you do not have time to reply emails, you certainly do not have the time and discipline to learn 9 years of physics compressed into a few weeks/months), i also then cannot budget properly, so end up no equipment nor theory..... and end up your concept of 'research' = googling
which by the way, is not
i find it very funny when teenagers say things like "i researched last night on the internet"
thats just reading websites created by nonscientists talking about science, treat it as interesting gossip perhaps, dun take it too seriously yea
interesting summary/simplification but generally agreeable
recall some long ago test during high school days, my iq supposed to be 146 or something D:
still lower than my height. meows.
i 146 not 164 D:
if you guys start soon, like a couple of hours per week, might still have a chance/hope of joining/presenting in this...http://www.ipsmeeting.org/
if its ok, yudong will go to sim square this weekend to buy some stuff from the project, and claim from you/it dept later in the week, is it okay?
stuff are
2 x hdmi-vga adaptor (for the usb computers to talk to lcd screens in src)
2 x wireless keyboard/mouse for the computers (less messy than wired versions, which i think is better for a workstation)
and take a look at
2 x brackets, to hold the screens to the aluminum profiles
this one see first but dun buy, becos unless certain of the profile and lcd dimension, might not be sure which brackets to get
should we do a quick meetup sometime next week, perhaps before the new year?
briefly talk and show u how to start getting the ball rolling
so that each of you have your own corner of the lab to accumulate stuff, experiment with, on/off at your own time over the next few weeks
i think enough waiting/talking/playing, time to get your hands on something real again good?
zhengyang = michelson interferometer + photon detector + timestamp + spectrometer = detect the moon, by balancing the forces of gravity and spring tension, i.e. mg = -kx
yudong = sono (noise/sound selection/cancellation)+ raspberry pi (supercomputing?)
lor = verify and measure planck constant (by measuring the energy, wavelength and photon number of light) via E=nhf
agreed on adaptor option.  very sensible. Maybe get wireless keyboard n mouse too. easier to use,  less messy
also to note/think is, how to mount the screens to the profiles, some form of brackets? simlim definitely got sell, but duno whether the screens in src already have
i would estimate... wireless keyboard/mouse pack costs... $20 to $30 maybe? and adaptor... $10ish?
ok. if u happen to see the brackets in simlim (as with the keyboards or adaptor)
can just quickly snap a photo, and share with everyone, so we all have a gauge as to what is happening/expect
do u have enough cash to buy such things (if so, remember to get receipts), or need me to go down get?
remember receipts, then claim from adeline on monday
and probably no need to reply this, but you guys start thinking
how much time you want to put in during school term
preferably not zero, because that will be really too slow, given how much time you give during holidays
as a rough gauge
i suggest
1 afternoon a week, and if that is already too heavy a burden
half a afternoon a week, like 2 hours a week
such that after 2 months, you have hands on for 16 hours
(i.e. about the number of hours i give in less than two days, but at least something)
such that after two weeks, at least have something presentable to show yourself/parents/teachers/funders that, yes, you are good/interested, and willing and able to make things happen and not just talk
so yea. think about it.
and in addition, it really would be a great boost, to your confidence/exposure/experience, plus a credit to show off to your dean/principal that you guys are serious and able, and thus release much more funds and freedom in what things can happen (like sending you to caltech for summer program or japan for conference or patent stuff or something)
and buy real serious scientific equipment rather than the garage level kinda toys at the moment yea
yeps
think about it
and take action!
oops sorry, i meant two months
becos in my mind i imagine you guys able to join / take a look at this http://www.ipsmeeting.org/
at least submit a poster presentation to show your intent/draft/prototype/direction, not thinking you guys want/able to come up with enough experience/intuition/new science to give a talk within 16 hours of work...
is relatively small scale
and thus a good start, to warm up you against international conferences against nobel laureates etc to talk to them as fellow people/scientists and not ahgugu
seriously. join this.
more meaningful/useful than competition/medals/grades blahs, this is real life networking and exposure, which is all that matters in life, over the paper certs which panic u right now
a recent paper, on considering whether the universe is actually just a quantum computer http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.4455
theres also another older unproven view that the universe is a hologram..
shall we meet on monday 3pm
things that i expect to be finished within 2 hours are
-all: setup the computers
-zhengyang: run u thru a basic michelson interferometer in half hour, touch the existing photodector and photodiodes in another half hour, one hour yourself
-yudong: gather the stuff for sono(motor?piezo?microphone?oscilloscope?signal generator?, i duno if the raspberry pi are here)
-lor: gather the stuff to measure planck constant, i think from the pdf and various googling, you have a idea what to get, roughly LED (which?) power supplies, oscilloscope, multimeters, variable resistors, etc
within half hour, at least the basic tools should be gathered
another half hour, a rough assembly/sequence as to what connects to what for what purpose
one hour on making it work
after two hours we gather and see what are the problems then think of next step
beautiful job
the ethernet thingie will be administratively difficult
though money and academic intelligence is a plentiful resource in an environment like hwachong, unfortunately politics and bureaucracy has also taken a foothold
i think adeline placed something in our work area just now, some switchbox thingie
concerning anything that remotely hint/sound to the staff of wifi/network/internet access/lan blahs
are things we will very much need, but we need to ask this very politely and not push for this. for now.
lets see how things develop
thursday i can meet u guys in morning, afternoon u either on your own or go play/nua, but i needa go back nus settle some stuff
some tasks i think of, to help you focus, but feel free to add in / evolve of course anytime
for each person, i think of two tasks
primary task = im pretty sure you can do so by 12noon, precision or 'quality' will grow over the weeks
secondary task = bonus, to gauge the status and set the stage for the coming 8 weeks/sessions
primary = get a basic/standard michelson interferometer up, i.e. observe any fringes, keeping in mind that as stable, large, bright and obvious fringes is good
secondary = talk to lor's setup
primary = get a vertical spring extending 1.5m, holding/hanging a retroflecting mirror, keeping in mind that as stable as possible is good (mechanical? vacuum? set the stage/thoughts to build up such over the months)
secondary = talk to zy's setup
i.e. merge the vertical spring+mirror from lor to be the vertical arm of the michelson
primary = get the linux pc and/or the raspberry alive and kicking
secondary = get the photometer (or other form of light detection we have) to speak to some form of data logger, via python script or something
essentially this is all that is to be done over the next 8 weeks
of course, the devil is in the details, and as lor points out, its pretty fast to just put the equipment in place
the problems is in the precision and accuracy, which goes out the window when lor/yudong observe the 3rd extra beam coming out from the beamsplitter that is already interference fringes :D
note that you have alllll the individual components in the thorlabs demo kit already
if not better
to be fair, we certainly have enough equipment and people to build both this quantum eraser and the michelson at the same time...
perhaps we should
and feed off each other's experience/lessons/insights
might prove fruitful
and there do seem to be issues with firmware, display settings, and even the power supply might be dodgy
havent found lead on specific solution or symptoms yet
for your gauge
i think you guys can make a poster of such flavour within 8 weeks
no nRT/V :D
will guide you along at some point...
i use LaTeX to compile such documents (its the standard typesetter for all scientific journals/conferences/posters/presentations....)
good
however i raise this point for your thoughts
toughest type of steel
why do we want a tough spring?
we want a weak spring ( some of my colleagues suspect we might need to get nanowires)
because we need a spring that extends 1.5 to 3metres, not a spring thats 1.5 to 3metres
F=-kx; x is extension of the spring, the default spring length at F=0, has no value
and do reply/sound out about lor's point about whether meeting later/tomorrow or not....
otherwise i will just take it as a no
extra time? :D
every friday, rain or shine, im occupied, weekly meeting with my research group, that lasts about 3 hours
where everyone, profs, research fellows, research assistants, and about 10 phd students share with each other their progress and problems for the week, and everyone chips in
its a very useful brainstorming session/method that all research group does
should the day comes where we do research work in src more than 3 hours a week, then i think we should upgrade to such a level of academics
before then...
who knows
to zy: what time do you intend to be in hci tml?
i can make it for friday late aftn like 3-6pm but not before
might pop by tml then to give u pointers (i.e. pressure :D :D) if u like
maybe 9am to 1130am kinda thing
recover first.
even if you recover tml, rest somemore
or you can come and share the fever germs
then we get mc next week :D
just something useful in case you never heard of
free online courses from fairly reputable unis and profs [[ This email was about Coursera ]]
before we one day go into learning user (7) lasers to trap atoms
may i suggest something easier and more easier, less abstract to grasp, and with all the equipment already present more or less in src; i.e. trapping small objects in midair using sound waves, i.e. levitation...
Please take note, that with immediate effect, unless the situation changes:
1) Please do not let the students operate any of the optical, electrical nor chemical resources/equipment related to this photonics/src research without adult supervision.
Reasons:
-Unsafe to handle lasers, open circuitry, high temperatures, glassware, alcohols, vacuums,  etc by students without training nor due care.
-Expensive to handle the above-mentioned equipment, which as you know, are very expensive and extremely delicate; already, a number of the equipment have been potentially damaged/compromised over the past 3 weeks.
p.s. as such, till the situation improves, I will not endorse the laser safety documents (nor any other safety documents) even if HOD or any teacher signs it, because I believe the current situation to be unsafe, and will not be made safe by a signature.
2) Unless you hear directly from me, be it in person, email or phone, please know that all student activity happens without my knowledge nor consent, so feel free to deny any lab activity which you consider inappropriate or uncomfortable, and if whenever in any doubt, do just text or call me at your convenience to discuss and verify.
p.s. two other students have voiced interest, wu yikai and shuangyuan; have not met and discussed with them; will meet them soon and assess them and let you know.
is there any update and/or pressure to make this meeting happen?
been approached by yikai and shuanyuan to join this endeavour, so might have to regroup to let your teachers know at some point.... as to how to convince them to let you learn/try this on your own with maximum gain and mimimum hassle..
perhaps you would like to tell me where this meeting will take place,  unless u do not want me to be present, in which case I hope you have mugged enough physics n presentation skills to convince him that you guys are willing and able to do this long term without the need of teachers or projects day system n deadlines breathing down your neck eh
Thanks.  is just that many of the things n places have evolved n changed over the past 18years... wil be outside second floor of high sch staff office at 130pm.
so what happen to the weekly 1, 2 hours meetup/research session ah
cos i note that
1) this week is half over
2) left 6, 7 weeks to the meeting of the Institute of Physics (minus one more week for CNY)
p.s. i havent touched the safety requirements application forms blahs for you all because i felt zero pressure/input from you guys~~; which as you know, without the form, u cant touch the lasers within src labs eh D:
this email is intentionally delayed to give a grace period to acknowledge the previous email; cos i find it a joke that given smartphones and wifi/internet/blahs, that almost a day to acknowledge one email is 'stressful' and 'difficult'
unless of course, none of you have smartphones, no 3g plan, no access to wifi and computers in school, and have been in school from 6am to 10pm, and only a brief 15min window access to computer/internet before bedtime.
the good thing was; for a time, i think a few hours to a couple of days, you guys improved quite a bit
zhengyang's calculations for the moon gravity was good, and aligning the michelson the other day was good and fast
lor's finding the planck constant measurement experiment and various components was good too
and yudong's work on the android, linux pc and the raspberry pi is actually excellent
you lack self discipline.
so far, you only worked when/after i pressure you, or scold you, or physically standing in front of you to give you that discipline
otherwise... things happen so slowly and inefficiently, and you go back to the teenage way of feeling stressed over nothing really at all, rather than a  being excited over doing new contributions to mankind and experience for yourself!
a pity, you knows.
thus, i will return your attitude to you, and you can have a feel how its like.
1) im not going hci tomorrow le, if cannot even reply/acknowledge my question on the weekly meetup
1b) needless to say, if cannot even have the self discipline and effort to reply on the meetup, certainly in no condition yet to actually meetup to research
1c) if unwilling and unable to spend time to discuss research nor meetup for research, i find it ridiculous to spend time for administrative ding dongs; esp since this convinces me that you respond well to authority (i.e. you will make time for a hod), but not out of your own self discipline/choice/want to do this...
1d) the fact that i have to prompt you to even know you already have arranged a meeting with the hod, is already a failure.
that omission alone speaks volumes about your maturity and seriousness, lack thereof.
which in turn tells me, even though you *say* you want the freedom away from projects day and a system clamping down on you, your behaviour proves otherwise yea; but i closed one eye at first, particularly given zhengyang's correction to actually say what 'lunchtime' means without being prompted, which suggested the level of maturity and awareness amongst you guys are very uneven right now...
2) as such, i see no need to be bother myself with researching up on the safety precautions and requirements etc since you have no interest to acknowledge/reply my statement on that >1000 minutes ago,  (seriously, given a grace period over 100times longer than i do to reply to my colleagues/profs/collaborators...is still undoable feat?)
2b) somemore if you are unwilling/unable to even meet up weekly for research, then need the form for what? for show only.
so i will play this dragging game with you this time ba ah, till it hits you like a wake-up call
i do not do things for show, a waste of our one life, answering to people/society/yesmen and the ratrace
i live, because i want to, the way i want to.
-i will not take initiative to send you any further article/url for discussion, since so far only yudong bother to acknowledge it, though discussion is repeatedly limited to a single line sentence saying its interesting, which... is something primary sch or poly students can say, so i cant praise too much on that;
-will not ask you again for weekly meeting, you either do it and ask me, or you just dont, and watch the months waste away, up to you, if you need a few more years to grow up first to realise how much time of your life was burnt and resolve your identity crisis, then take your time, the world doesnt care and continues to move on with or without any of us
-will not remind u of ips meeting again, if u wish to waste this opportunity, it really is your problem not mine; if you consider this a burden not a chance, then you are naive; if you believe people outside of the exam hall cares about your grades rather than impression (i.e. whether they like u), then... good luck to your fantasy (:
-feel free to meet the hod with the rest if you like
otherwise you can find me in my office or labs at NUS: Centre for Quantum Technologies; BLK S15
text me when you reach @ 9017 0719
good, except that you chose not to say this earlier,  even when hinted n prompted n questioned, n chose to assume n keep quiet. Why?  Is it very clever or useful or productive or tiring to.
What admin issues? What safety issues? What forms?  What teachers?  What do you want to convince?  What do you want to achieve?
Or is just lay back n wait for things to be told to u? n u take it as 'teacher say so,  therefore it must be true n never questioned "
On my part its getting tiring n annoying just to get you guys to start communicating properly.  Not even expecting any math, physics,  technical skills or time.
just start talking.  my expectations is now so low that even if you spend one minute a day to email one sentence,  is already more effort than what's been happening the past week.
ie pls realise how little communication is flowing n how destructive n useless this is
correct. n I agree.
n all these should have been conveyed to everyone including me,  the very day or night this was known. Instead days past and something that is chicken feed still unsolved.
time will tell, what and how you choose to behave.
everything else is just, courtesy.
oh yea, there's a psychological test called myer's brigg MBTI; 16 personality types
i fall under INTJ, as do most scientists, and characters like sherlock holmes are also under this category
this group of people emphasize on reality and making things happen, and see past courtesy/social as being nice after a certain point as mere falsehoods and empty promises and outright lies...
sure.
if you believe that discussing *after* a meeting with your hod will be useful
and fail to realise that no discussion prior to said meeting, means your 'meeting' with the hod will not so much a discussion, but he dictating terms to you, since you will be incapable of replying any technical/serious questions he ask you, nor can you give him any suggestions/ideas/experience, and without co-ordination, what three of you say will be out of sync with each other, or simply keep quiet, and he will be unconvinced and unimpressed
after such a meeting; what can you hope to discuss, really?; to travel back in time and not repeat the mistakes, and the things you wish you knew/did/said during the meeting?
think.; stop. floating on hormones and emotions.; and start thinking logically.
and i know you all find thinking logically and objectively very hard
and i assure you, one way to help yourself think; is; to; write; it; down
many things, when you write it down, and you read it with your own eyes, you will quickly realise how silly it is
if you just assume and emo and feel, you as yet do not have the level of self awareness to realise what you are thinking yet
does it not occur you you in the slightest bit, that this whole endeavour lives or dies by how you conduct yourself with him, and his impression of you?
1) if he's wow by how passionate, serious you are, by the posture you sit, the science you talk about, the logic you apply, the experience you share, the gleam in your eye, the joy in your voice
so many things is possible, resources, funding, build an observatory, sponsored overseas trips, summer exchange to caltech, conferences in europe, internships with any institute, collaboration, waive off classes/cca, give grades, recognition in cert, whatever
2) if he's unimpressed at how a trio of uninfomed, unprepared kids just appear infront of him and ask for instructions, ask for money, ask for freedom, ask for trust, ask for everything and showing no confidence, no training, no passion, no preparation:
-if he's bad mood or unkind: dismiss you to focus on your schoolwork, and be normal like everyone else in the ratrace
-if he's kind: say encouraging words, but ultimately just redirect/reclassify you as under projects day or something and basically not his problem anymore
a) if you know the above situation, why the current attitude?
b) if u duno the above situation, what then do you imagine the meeting to be? a friendly innocent lunch with a friend? play dota with him later? chitchat about the latest tweet/tv/gossip?
c) or you just dun care, and not think about it, and assume somehow, by magic, everything will happen the way you want, because you are special, and the world owes you
think.
yes.; thank you for being constructive.
spoken like a true intj to realise the glaring obvious
in the past 6 minutes since yudong first suggested meeting in reccee 12 hours from now; you could already have started discussing
instead of delaying it because..... you can delay it; just. start.
its not that hard
its getting abit painful to watch
should/do i need to start discussing to myself and start the ball rolling, for you all to read instead?
in order for you to realise how one person talking to himself can discuss more in ten minutes, than/when 4 of you need to wait for 12 hours in order to start discussing?
just.; start.
how much more blatant can this be; -->start<---; discussing
stop talking/waiting/emoing about discussing, just. start. do it!!
to help focus your thoughts,  don't spend your attention on not wanting it to be projects day; spend your attention on what you do want it to be like and why; then attention on how you can pull this off when most students cannot
if im your hod, i would be interested  by yudong's slant
zhengyang's stance is more detailed, but with some emotional/risky bits
-DO NOT condemn projects day too obviously, you have to be politically correct when you explain why u rather not do so under that umbrella of projects day
-the bit about conferences/workshops/etc i wouldnt mention yet, because thats abit overreaching (i.e. it costs money and also requires real scientific results, which u do not have, so who would believe you? instead it sounds like you are just asking for even more money on top of the equipment)
-instead, sighs, IPS meeting, if you tell him you are interested in presenting/participating in that, it shows him that ; =you have initiative, to find out such a local conference without school pushing u to join; =that you are serious, to dare to go
=and at this point of the conversation, start sharing what you have done, and what you intend to do: if enough detail is given with enough enthusiasm, then he might believe u
results = anything to push the brandname hwachong outwards, such as IPS to show NUS/NTU/Raffles/NUS High, etc that you are good, take some nice photos to put in the school websites/newsletter etc, mingle
capability = talk about what you have done, share the experience of aligning the michelson interferometry, the calculations for gravity measurements, the raspberry pi, planck constant etc
1) talk fast and in detail, (english drama chair, show excitedness, not nervousness, you have one morning to train them) not the memorisation and regurgitate way, but say the things you really have done, your personal experience, to sound convincing that hey, you really personally did it yourself and learnt something (esp when such things are not taught in class, and way out of syllabus)
can talk about experience about how sensitive the fringe movements are, how tricky some pc connections can be, how building a table can be not so obvious and yet have many adaptable points
2) take photos on your phone and show him any images of what you have done, be able to browse thru any photo and show off/identify all the components and what they do, how to use, what problems etc
do NOT simply read/memorise stuff from internet and try to regurgitate, it will be very obvious
and with reference to zhengyang's smiley on the notes; (do it. duh. is cute); yes, your words might be taken as anarchist
and i think the reason is because overall, your logic tends to talk about; 1) what you dont want (projects day, controlled, pressure, reports, restrictions); -but you neglect to say how you can work without such a system; 2) what you want (results, conference, overseas, support, money, equipment, infrastructure, self sufficiency, ); -but you neglect to show why you should be granted such boons above and beyond your peers
1) deals with your ability; 2) deals with your passion
and from the notes at least, its not obvious yet
to the bits in the " "; if im the hod, i will be intrigued by such strong statements, and ask for proof, such as
1) so, how often do you guys meet up so far?; 2) so how are your workload, timetable, cca, hows you handling the new year?
no... this is called tact
strong statements can be less convincing
I will commit 3 hours a week to labwork = strong statement, but not many people will believe ; I will commit 1 to 4 hours aweek to labwork, but depends on the schedule for the week, if have tests maybe wont spend anytime at all, but if less tests/homework, might double up to two afternoons or something, and work out arrangements with mentor and the lab techs = detailed statement, showing thought, planning, consideration for realistic changes and conditions... believeable and matured
strong statements or not, is not just about the choice of adjectives
strong in the sense that its short, full of assumptions (i.e. confidence/arrogance/ignorance?); as opposed to details, careful acknowledgement of varying conditions and methods, to adapt accordingly to reality and time
